README.rst, before:

Synapse LDAP Auth Provider
==========================

Allows synapse to use LDAP as a password provider.

This allows users to log in to synapse with their username and password from an
LDAP server. There is also mxisd (https://github.com/kamax-io/mxisd) (3rd party)
that offers more fully-featured integration.

Installation
------------
- Via deb package `python-matrix-synapse-ldap3` available in the same repo as the synapse package
- Via python's package manager: `pip install matrix-synapse-ldap3`

Usage
-----

Example synapse config:

.. code:: yaml

   password_providers:
    - module: "ldap_auth_provider.LdapAuthProvider"
      config:
        enabled: true
        uri: "ldap://ldap.example.com:389"
        start_tls: true
        base: "ou=users,dc=example,dc=com"
        attributes:
           uid: "cn"
           mail: "email"
           name: "givenName"
        #bind_dn:
        #bind_password:
        #filter: "(objectClass=posixAccount)"

If you would like to enable login/registration via email, or givenName/email
binding upon registration, you need to enable search mode. An example config
in search mode is provided below:

.. code:: yaml

   password_providers:
    - module: "ldap_auth_provider.LdapAuthProvider"
      config:
        enabled: true
        mode: "search"
        uri: "ldap://ldap.example.com:389"
        start_tls: true
        base: "ou=users,dc=example,dc=com"
        attributes:
           uid: "cn"
           mail: "email"
           name: "givenName"
        # Search auth if anonymous search not enabled
        bind_dn: "cn=hacker,ou=svcaccts,dc=example,dc=com"
        bind_password: "ch33kym0nk3y"
        #filter: "(objectClass=posixAccount)"

Troubleshooting and Debugging
-----------------------------

``matrix-synapse-ldap3`` logging is included in the Synapse homeserver log
(typically ``homeserver.log``). The LDAP plugin log level can be increased to
``DEBUG`` for troubleshooting and debugging by making the following modifications
to your Synapse server's logging configuration file:

- Set the value for `handlers.file.level` to `DEBUG`:

.. code:: yaml

   handlers:
     file:
       # [...]
       level: DEBUG

- Add the following to the `loggers` section:

.. code:: yaml

   loggers:
      # [...]
      ldap3:
        level: DEBUG
      ldap_auth_provider:
        level: DEBUG

Finally, restart your Synapse server for the changes to take effect:

.. code:: sh

   synctl restart

Commit message:

Add option to create username from email-id's local part

README.rst, after:

Synapse LDAP Auth Provider
==========================

Allows synapse to use LDAP as a password provider.

This allows users to log in to synapse with their username and password from an
LDAP server. There is also mxisd (https://github.com/kamax-io/mxisd) (3rd party)
that offers more fully-featured integration.

Installation
------------
- Via deb package `python-matrix-synapse-ldap3` available in the same repo as the synapse package
- Via python's package manager: `pip install matrix-synapse-ldap3`

Usage
-----

Example synapse config:

.. code:: yaml

   password_providers:
    - module: "ldap_auth_provider.LdapAuthProvider"
      config:
        enabled: true
        uri: "ldap://ldap.example.com:389"
        start_tls: true
        base: "ou=users,dc=example,dc=com"
        attributes:
           uid: "cn"
           mail: "email"
           name: "givenName"
        #bind_dn:
        #bind_password:
        #filter: "(objectClass=posixAccount)"

If you would like to enable login/registration via email, or givenName/email
binding upon registration, you need to enable search mode. An example config
in search mode is provided below:

.. code:: yaml

   password_providers:
    - module: "ldap_auth_provider.LdapAuthProvider"
      config:
        enabled: true
        mode: "search"
        uri: "ldap://ldap.example.com:389"
        start_tls: true
        base: "ou=users,dc=example,dc=com"
        attributes:
           uid: "cn"
           mail: "email"
           name: "givenName"
        # Search auth if anonymous search not enabled
        bind_dn: "cn=hacker,ou=svcaccts,dc=example,dc=com"
        bind_password: "ch33kym0nk3y"
        #filter: "(objectClass=posixAccount)"

If you want to use the local part of email-id as username in synapse.
configure 

.. code:: yaml

   attributes:
     uid: "email"
     mail: "email"
     name: "givenName"

for eg:email = ``local_part@domain.com`` then userid on matrix will be
``@local_part:matrix.com``.

Troubleshooting and Debugging
-----------------------------

``matrix-synapse-ldap3`` logging is included in the Synapse homeserver log
(typically ``homeserver.log``). The LDAP plugin log level can be increased to
``DEBUG`` for troubleshooting and debugging by making the following modifications
to your Synapse server's logging configuration file:

- Set the value for `handlers.file.level` to `DEBUG`:

.. code:: yaml

   handlers:
     file:
       # [...]
       level: DEBUG

- Add the following to the `loggers` section:

.. code:: yaml

   loggers:
      # [...]
      ldap3:
        level: DEBUG
      ldap_auth_provider:
        level: DEBUG

Finally, restart your Synapse server for the changes to take effect:

.. code:: sh

   synctl restart
