README.md, before:

# Synapse LDAP Auth Provider

Allows synapse to use LDAP as a password provider.

This allows users to log in to synapse with their username and password from an
LDAP server. There is also [ma1sd](https://github.com/ma1uta/ma1sd) (3rd party)
that offers more fully-featured integration.

## Installation

- Included as standard in the [deb packages](https://matrix-org.github.io/synapse/latest/setup/installation.html#matrixorg-packages) and
  [docker images](https://matrix-org.github.io/synapse/latest/setup/installation.html#docker-images-and-ansible-playbooks) from matrix.org.
- If you installed into a virtualenv:
    - Ensure pip is up-to-date: `pip install -U pip`.
    - Install the LDAP password provider: `pip install matrix-synapse-ldap3`.
- For other installation mechanisms, see the documentation provided by the maintainer.

## Usage

Example Synapse configuration:

```yaml
   modules:
    - module: "ldap_auth_provider.LdapAuthProviderModule"
      config:
        enabled: true
        uri: "ldap://ldap.example.com:389"
        start_tls: true
        base: "ou=users,dc=example,dc=com"
        attributes:
           uid: "cn"
           mail: "mail"
           name: "givenName"
        #bind_dn:
        #bind_password:
        #filter: "(objectClass=posixAccount)"
        # Additional options for TLS, can be any key from https://ldap3.readthedocs.io/en/latest/ssltls.html#the-tls-object
        #tls_options:
        #  validate: true
        #  local_certificate_file: foo.crt
        #  local_private_key_file: bar.pem
        #  local_private_key_password: secret
```

If you would like to specify more than one LDAP server for HA, you can provide uri parameter with a list.
Default HA strategy of ldap3.ServerPool is employed, so first available server is used.

```yaml
   modules:
    - module: "ldap_auth_provider.LdapAuthProviderModule"
      config:
        enabled: true
        uri:
           - "ldap://ldap1.example.com:389"
           - "ldap://ldap2.example.com:389"
        start_tls: true
        base: "ou=users,dc=example,dc=com"
        attributes:
           uid: "cn"
           mail: "email"
           name: "givenName"
        #bind_dn:
        #bind_password:
        #filter: "(objectClass=posixAccount)"
        #tls_options:
        #  validate: true
        #  local_certificate_file: foo.crt
        #  local_private_key_file: bar.pem
        #  local_private_key_password: secret
```

If you would like to enable login/registration via email, or givenName/email
binding upon registration, you need to enable search mode. An example config
in search mode is provided below:

```yaml
   modules:
    - module: "ldap_auth_provider.LdapAuthProviderModule"
      config:
        enabled: true
        mode: "search"
        uri: "ldap://ldap.example.com:389"
        start_tls: true
        base: "ou=users,dc=example,dc=com"
        attributes:
           uid: "cn"
           mail: "mail"
           name: "givenName"
        # Search auth if anonymous search not enabled
        bind_dn: "cn=hacker,ou=svcaccts,dc=example,dc=com"
        bind_password: "ch33kym0nk3y"
        #filter: "(objectClass=posixAccount)"
        #tls_options:
        #  validate: true
        #  local_certificate_file: foo.crt
        #  local_private_key_file: bar.pem
        #  local_private_key_password: secret
```

Alternatively you can also put the `bind_password` of your service user into its
own file to not leak secrets into your configuration:

```yaml
   modules:
    - module: "ldap_auth_provider.LdapAuthProviderModule"
      config:
        enabled: true
        # all the other options you need
        bind_password_file: "/var/secrets/synapse-ldap-bind-password"
```

Please note that every trailing `\n` in the password file will be stripped automatically.

## Active Directory forest support

If the ``active_directory`` flag is set to `true`, an Active Directory forest will be
searched for the login details.
In this mode, the user enters their login details in one of the forms:

- `<login>/<domain>`
- `<domain>\<login>`

In either case, this will be mapped to the Matrix UID `<login>/<domain>` (The 
normal AD domain separators, `@` and `\`, cannot be used in Matrix User Identifiers, so 
`/` is used instead.)

Let's say you have several domains in the `example.com` forest:

```yaml
   modules:
    - module: "ldap_auth_provider.LdapAuthProviderModule"
      config:
        enabled: true
        mode: "search"
        uri: "ldap://main.example.com:389"
        base: "dc=example,dc=com"
        # Must be true for this feature to work
        active_directory: true
        # Optional. Users from this domain may log in without specifying the domain part
        default_domain: main.example.com
        attributes:
           uid: "userPrincipalName"
           mail: "mail"
           name: "givenName"
        bind_dn: "cn=hacker,ou=svcaccts,dc=example,dc=com"
        bind_password: "ch33kym0nk3y"
```

With this configuration the user can log in with either `main\someuser`,
`main.example.com\someuser`, `someuser/main.example.com` or `someuser`.

Users of other domains in the `example.com` forest can log in with `domain\login`
or `login/domain`.

Please note that `userPrincipalName` or a similar-looking LDAP attribute in the format
`login@domain` must be used when the `active_directory` option is enabled.

## Troubleshooting and Debugging

`matrix-synapse-ldap3` logging is included in the Synapse homeserver log
(typically `homeserver.log`). The LDAP plugin log level can be increased to
`DEBUG` for troubleshooting and debugging by making the following modifications
to your Synapse server's logging configuration file:

- Set the value for `handlers.file.level` to `DEBUG`:

```yaml
   handlers:
     file:
       # [...]
       level: DEBUG
```

- Add the following to the `loggers` section:

```yaml
   loggers:
      # [...]
      ldap3:
        level: DEBUG
      ldap_auth_provider:
        level: DEBUG
```

Finally, restart your Synapse server for the changes to take effect:

```shell
synctl restart
```

Commit message:

Note that Dex is how you get MAS+LDAP

README.md, after:

# Synapse LDAP Auth Provider

Allows synapse to use LDAP as a password provider.

This allows users to log in to synapse with their username and password from an
LDAP server. There is also [ma1sd](https://github.com/ma1uta/ma1sd) (3rd party)
that offers more fully-featured integration.

> [!WARNING]
> Synapse's password provider plugin functionality (which this module relies on)
> is not compatible with [Matrix Authentication
> Service](https://github.com/element-hq/matrix-authentication-service) (MAS), the
> next-gen Matrix auth server.
>
> To use Synapse and MAS together with an LDAP backend, it is recommended to use
> [Dex](https://github.com/dexidp/dex) with MAS, instead of
> `matrix-synapse-ldap3`. See [the relevant MAS
> documentation](https://element-hq.github.io/matrix-authentication-service/setup/migration.html#map-any-upstream-sso-providers)
> for information on configuring Dex in MAS.

## Installation

- Included as standard in the [deb packages](https://matrix-org.github.io/synapse/latest/setup/installation.html#matrixorg-packages) and
  [docker images](https://matrix-org.github.io/synapse/latest/setup/installation.html#docker-images-and-ansible-playbooks) from matrix.org.
- If you installed into a virtualenv:
    - Ensure pip is up-to-date: `pip install -U pip`.
    - Install the LDAP password provider: `pip install matrix-synapse-ldap3`.
- For other installation mechanisms, see the documentation provided by the maintainer.

## Usage

Example Synapse configuration:

```yaml
   modules:
    - module: "ldap_auth_provider.LdapAuthProviderModule"
      config:
        enabled: true
        uri: "ldap://ldap.example.com:389"
        start_tls: true
        base: "ou=users,dc=example,dc=com"
        attributes:
           uid: "cn"
           mail: "mail"
           name: "givenName"
        #bind_dn:
        #bind_password:
        #filter: "(objectClass=posixAccount)"
        # Additional options for TLS, can be any key from https://ldap3.readthedocs.io/en/latest/ssltls.html#the-tls-object
        #tls_options:
        #  validate: true
        #  local_certificate_file: foo.crt
        #  local_private_key_file: bar.pem
        #  local_private_key_password: secret
```

If you would like to specify more than one LDAP server for HA, you can provide uri parameter with a list.
Default HA strategy of ldap3.ServerPool is employed, so first available server is used.

```yaml
   modules:
    - module: "ldap_auth_provider.LdapAuthProviderModule"
      config:
        enabled: true
        uri:
           - "ldap://ldap1.example.com:389"
           - "ldap://ldap2.example.com:389"
        start_tls: true
        base: "ou=users,dc=example,dc=com"
        attributes:
           uid: "cn"
           mail: "email"
           name: "givenName"
        #bind_dn:
        #bind_password:
        #filter: "(objectClass=posixAccount)"
        #tls_options:
        #  validate: true
        #  local_certificate_file: foo.crt
        #  local_private_key_file: bar.pem
        #  local_private_key_password: secret
```

If you would like to enable login/registration via email, or givenName/email
binding upon registration, you need to enable search mode. An example config
in search mode is provided below:

```yaml
   modules:
    - module: "ldap_auth_provider.LdapAuthProviderModule"
      config:
        enabled: true
        mode: "search"
        uri: "ldap://ldap.example.com:389"
        start_tls: true
        base: "ou=users,dc=example,dc=com"
        attributes:
           uid: "cn"
           mail: "mail"
           name: "givenName"
        # Search auth if anonymous search not enabled
        bind_dn: "cn=hacker,ou=svcaccts,dc=example,dc=com"
        bind_password: "ch33kym0nk3y"
        #filter: "(objectClass=posixAccount)"
        #tls_options:
        #  validate: true
        #  local_certificate_file: foo.crt
        #  local_private_key_file: bar.pem
        #  local_private_key_password: secret
```

Alternatively you can also put the `bind_password` of your service user into its
own file to not leak secrets into your configuration:

```yaml
   modules:
    - module: "ldap_auth_provider.LdapAuthProviderModule"
      config:
        enabled: true
        # all the other options you need
        bind_password_file: "/var/secrets/synapse-ldap-bind-password"
```

Please note that every trailing `\n` in the password file will be stripped automatically.

## Active Directory forest support

If the ``active_directory`` flag is set to `true`, an Active Directory forest will be
searched for the login details.
In this mode, the user enters their login details in one of the forms:

- `<login>/<domain>`
- `<domain>\<login>`

In either case, this will be mapped to the Matrix UID `<login>/<domain>` (The 
normal AD domain separators, `@` and `\`, cannot be used in Matrix User Identifiers, so 
`/` is used instead.)

Let's say you have several domains in the `example.com` forest:

```yaml
   modules:
    - module: "ldap_auth_provider.LdapAuthProviderModule"
      config:
        enabled: true
        mode: "search"
        uri: "ldap://main.example.com:389"
        base: "dc=example,dc=com"
        # Must be true for this feature to work
        active_directory: true
        # Optional. Users from this domain may log in without specifying the domain part
        default_domain: main.example.com
        attributes:
           uid: "userPrincipalName"
           mail: "mail"
           name: "givenName"
        bind_dn: "cn=hacker,ou=svcaccts,dc=example,dc=com"
        bind_password: "ch33kym0nk3y"
```

With this configuration the user can log in with either `main\someuser`,
`main.example.com\someuser`, `someuser/main.example.com` or `someuser`.

Users of other domains in the `example.com` forest can log in with `domain\login`
or `login/domain`.

Please note that `userPrincipalName` or a similar-looking LDAP attribute in the format
`login@domain` must be used when the `active_directory` option is enabled.

## Troubleshooting and Debugging

`matrix-synapse-ldap3` logging is included in the Synapse homeserver log
(typically `homeserver.log`). The LDAP plugin log level can be increased to
`DEBUG` for troubleshooting and debugging by making the following modifications
to your Synapse server's logging configuration file:

- Set the value for `handlers.file.level` to `DEBUG`:

```yaml
   handlers:
     file:
       # [...]
       level: DEBUG
```

- Add the following to the `loggers` section:

```yaml
   loggers:
      # [...]
      ldap3:
        level: DEBUG
      ldap_auth_provider:
        level: DEBUG
```

Finally, restart your Synapse server for the changes to take effect:

```shell
synctl restart
```
