RELEASING.md, before:

# How to release `matrix-synapse-ldap3`

Releasing `matrix-synapse-ldap3` involves bumping the version number, creating
a new tag on Github, then uploading release packages to
[PyPi](https://pypi.org).

You will need push access to this repo as well as an account on PyPi with push
access to the
[matrix-synapse-ldap3](https://pypi.org/project/matrix-synapse-ldap3/) package.

1. Edit the `__version__` variable of `ldap_auth_provider.py` to the new release
version. This repository uses [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/).

1. Set a variable to the version number for convenience:
   ```sh
   ver=$(python3 -c 'import ldap_auth_provider; print(ldap_auth_provider.__version__)')
   ```

1. Push your changes:
   ```sh
   git add -u && git commit -m $ver && git push
   ```

1. Create a signed git tag for the release:
   ```sh
   git tag -s v$ver
   ```

   Set the first line of the message to `vX.Y.Z`, and the rest to the changes since the last release (hint: `git log --pretty=%s --reverse v<old ver>...`)

1. Push the tag:
   ```sh
   git push origin tag v$ver
   ```

1. Build and upload to PyPI:
   ```sh
   python setup.py sdist
   twine upload dist/matrix-synapse-ldap3-$ver.tar.gz
   ```

1. Create release on GH project page:
   ```sh
   xdg-open https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-synapse-ldap3/releases/edit/v$ver
   ```

Commit message:

Switch to setup.cfg from setup.py.

RELEASING.md, after:

# How to release `matrix-synapse-ldap3`

Releasing `matrix-synapse-ldap3` involves bumping the version number, creating
a new tag on Github, then uploading release packages to
[PyPi](https://pypi.org).

You will need push access to this repo as well as an account on PyPi with push
access to the
[matrix-synapse-ldap3](https://pypi.org/project/matrix-synapse-ldap3/) package.

You will need to install the `build` and `twine` packages.

1. Edit the `__version__` variable of `ldap_auth_provider.py` to the new release
version. This repository uses [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/).

1. Set a variable to the version number for convenience:
   ```sh
   ver=$(python3 -c 'import ldap_auth_provider; print(ldap_auth_provider.__version__)')
   ```

1. Push your changes:
   ```sh
   git add -u && git commit -m $ver && git push
   ```

1. Create a signed git tag for the release:
   ```sh
   git tag -s v$ver
   ```

   Set the first line of the message to `vX.Y.Z`, and the rest to the changes since the last release (hint: `git log --pretty=%s --reverse v<old ver>...`)

1. Push the tag:
   ```sh
   git push origin tag v$ver
   ```

1. Build and upload to PyPI:
   ```sh
   python -m build
   twine upload dist/matrix-synapse-ldap3-$ver.tar.gz dist/matrix_synapse_ldap3-$ver-py3-none-any.whl
   ```

1. Create release on GH project page:
   ```sh
   xdg-open https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-synapse-ldap3/releases/edit/v$ver
   ```
